Multisubscription documentation with tests (#89)
bakdata/quick: docs/docs/user/getting-started/working-with-quick/multi-subscriptions.md

how to get real-time data updates
using the `Subscription` type. The provided example
of a subscription involved receiving updates from a
single topic. You might wonder if getting real-time updates of types
whose components belong to more than one topic is feasible.
Quick gives us such a possibility.
You can use a so-called multi-subscription to retrieve complex objects
whose elements belong to more than one Kafka topic.
Consider the following scenario: Every 15 seconds,
you want to get statistics of users' clicks and purchases.
Information about clicks and purchases is stored in two separate Kafka topics.
To retrieve the information about users' statistics,
you create a multi-subscription.
The semantics for multi-subscriptions is slightly different from
a typical (single) subscription.  

## Extending the schema

Before we dive into the details of multi-subscriptions,
please extend your schema `example.graphql` with the following type:
```graphql
type Click {
    userId: Int!
    timestamp: Int
}
```
Additionally, please create a topic that holds entries of the `Click` type:
`quick topic create click
--key-type string --value-type schema --schema example.Click`  

> As a reminder, in a single subscription, you add a topic directive

Reviewer: maybe it is good to link the subscription documentation here

(which references a specific Kafka topic)
directly to the field that describes the entities
you want to receive updates about, i.e.:
```graphql title="schema.gql"
type Subscription {
  purchases: Purchase @topic(name: "purchase")
}
```
Please take a look at the following example to understand the difference
in a declaration of a single and a multiple subscription
(other type definitions have been skipped for clarity
and can be consulted in the earlier sections of the documentation).
```graphql
type Subscription {
    userStatistics: UserStatistics
}

type UserStatistics {
    purchases: Purchase @topic(name: "purchase")
    clicks: Click @topic(name: "click")
}
```
As you can see, the field `userStatistics` in `Subscription`
is not directly annotated with the `@topic` directive.
Instead, the type the field relates to (`UserStatistics`) consists of two fields,
each annotated with `@topic`directive.  
You can now apply the schema containing a multi-subscription to your gateway
(`quick gateway apply example -f schema.graphql`).  
To run the multi-subscription, 

> it is recommended to use a GraphQL client, for example, Altair.

Reviewer: Hyperlink Altair

      timestamp
    }
  }
}
```
In Altair, you would press the `Run subscription` button to start the subscription.  
We will now ingest some data to different topics
and see how the multi-subscription behaves.
Let's start with adding a single purchase:
```json title="subscription-purchase.json"
{
    "key": "abc",
    "value": {
      "purchaseId": "abc",
      "productId": 123,
      "userId": 2,
      "amount": 2,
      "price": {
        "total": 29.99,
        "currency": "DOLLAR"
      }
    }
}
```
```shell
 curl --request POST --url "$QUICK_URL/ingest/purchase" \
  --header "content-type:application/json" \
  --header "X-API-Key:$QUICK_API_KEY"\
  --data "@./subscription-purchase.json"
```
As a result, you should see the following JSON response in Altair:
```json
{
    "data": {
      "userStatistics": {
        "purchase": {
          "purchaseId": "abc"
        },
        "click": null
      }
    }
  }
```
Since we have not added any click event,
the response contains only purchase data.
Now, let's see what happens if we send the following click event
via the ingest service 
(please note that the key of the click event is the same as the id of the purchase event,

> otherwise, they couldn't be associated) :

Reviewer: Extract to a note box of mkdocs

```
As a result, you should see the following JSON response in Altair:
```json
{
    "data": {
      "userStatistics": {
        "purchase": {
          "purchaseId": "abc"
        },
        "click": null
      }
    }
  }
```
Since we have not added any click event,
the response contains only purchase data.
Now, let's see what happens if we send the following click event
via the ingest service.
!!! Note
    Please note that the key of the click event is the same as the id of the purchase event,
    otherwise, they couldn't be associated.
```json title="click1.json"
{
    "key": "abc",
    "value": {
        "userId": 2,
        "timestamp": 123456
    }
}
```
```shell
 curl --request POST --url "$QUICK_URL/ingest/click" \
  --header "content-type:application/json" \
  --header "X-API-Key:$QUICK_API_KEY"\
  --data "@./click1.json"
```
You should see the following subscription result in your GraphQL client:
```json
{ "data": {
    "userStatistics": {
      "purchase": {
        "purchaseId": "abc"
      },
      "click": {
        "userId": 2,
        "timestamp": 123456
      } 
    }
  }
}
```
If you add yet another click with the same id as before

> but with a different timestamp and ingest it:

Reviewer 2: Move the sentence below the code block up, to build an actual sentence

```json title="click1.json"
{
    "key": "abc",
    "value": {
        "userId": 2,
        "timestamp": 234567
    }
}
```
You will get almost the same response as before.
The only thing that changes is the field timestamp.
As you can see, when a new event of a specific type arrives
(a `Click` event in the example above),
you immediately receive the latest seen version of the other type
(a `Purchase` event in the example).

> An automatic retrieval is done to directly create a response whose elements belong to different types

Reviewer 2: There are quite a few passive sentences in this paragraph. You can just use `Quick` in those cases, e.g. `Quick does an automatic retrieval to directly create...`

and are stored in different topics.

> This mechanism can be extrapolated to multi-subscriptions

Reviewer 2: Does that actually work right now?

Author: I will check it.

Author: Works for three topics :)

# Multi-subscriptions

In [Subscriptions](subscriptions.md), you learned
how to get real-time updates using the `Subscription` type.
The example discussed receiving updates from a single topic.

Quick also allows you to create a so-called multi-subscription.
A multi-subscription enables you to
retrieve complex objects where elements
come from more than one Kafka topic.
To integrate a multi-subscription into your application,
we take the following steps:

1. Modify your schema with and define the multi-subscription.
2. Apply the new schema.
3. Run the multi-subscription.
4. Ingest data.

---

For the purpose of this tutorial,
consider the following scenario:
You want live statistics
of users' clicks and purchases.
Information about clicks and purchases is stored
in separate Kafka topics.
To retrieve such combined users' statistics,
you create a multi-subscription.

> ## Modify your schema with and define the multi-subscription

Author: But you first modify (extend) it with a new type, and afterwards you define the subscription. So maybe "extend your schema and define the MS"

> ## Modify your schema with and define the multi-subscription

Author: But ok, we could move the extension of the schema above - as a preliminary step, and then talk only about the definition of a MS

> ## Modify your schema with and define the multi-subscription

Reviewer 2: I'd say the definition of the multi-subscription includes the modification of the schema

> ## Modify your schema with and define the multi-subscription

Author: ```suggestion
Before you define the multi-subscription,
add the following type to your schema `schema.gql`:
```graphql
type Click[...]
```
Next, create a topic that holds `Click` entries:
```shell
[...]
```

## Modify your schema with and define the multi-subscription

As a first step, you extend the schema
(from earlier sections of this documentation)
with the definition of a multi-subscription as follows:
```

!!! Note
    The key of the click event equals the id of the purchase event.
```json title="click1.json"
{
    "key": "abc",
    "value": {
        "userId": 2,
        "timestamp": 123456
    }
}
```
```shell
 curl --request POST --url "$QUICK_URL/ingest/click" \
  --header "content-type:application/json" \
  --header "X-API-Key:$QUICK_API_KEY"\
  --data "@./click1.json"
```

You should see the following subscription result in your GraphQL client:
```json
{ 
  "data": {
    "userStatistics": {
      "purchase": {
        "purchaseId": "abc"
      },
      "click": {
        "userId": 2,
        "timestamp": 123456
      } 
    }
  }
}
```

Now consider another click with the same id `abc` but with a different timestamp.
This causes a new response with the latest timestamp.
```json title="click2.json"
{
    "key": "abc",
    "value": {
        "userId": 2,
        "timestamp": 234567
    }
}
```

As you can see, when a new event of one type, say `Click`, arrives,
you immediately receive the latest state of the other type, here `Purchase`.

Thus, Quick automatically creates an up-to-date response
with elements of the different types stored in different topics.  

> 

Reviewer 2: I think this line-break isn't needed

This mechanism can be generalized to multi-subscriptions
that comprise more than two types (topics).
For example, in a type that consists of three elements
a new event causes a fetch of the corresponding other types
to create a response immediately.

> Please see the [developer section on multi-subscriptions](https://bakdata.github.io/quick/latest/developer/multi-subscriptions-details/),

Author: I think, we can also use relative referencing: `[developer section on multi-subscriptions](../../../developer/multi-subscription-details.md)`

# Multi-subscriptions

In [Subscriptions](subscriptions.md), you learned
how to get real-time data updates
using the `Subscription` type.
The provided example of a subscription involved
receiving updates from a single topic.
However, Quick also gives you the possibility
to create a so-called multi-subscription.
A multi-subscription enables you to
retrieve complex objects whose elements
belong to more than one Kafka topic.
To integrate a multi-subscription into your application,
you make the following steps:

> 1. Modify your schema with and define the multi-subscription.

Reviewer 3: separate with newline for rendering list items in a column

2. Apply the new schema.
3. Run the multi-subscription.
4. Ingest data.

---

For the purpose of this tutorial,
consider the following scenario:
Every 15 seconds, you want to get statistics
of users' clicks and purchases.
Information about clicks and purchases is stored
in two separate Kafka topics.
To retrieve the information about users' statistics,
you create a multi-subscription.

## Modify your schema with and define the multi-subscription

Before the details of multi-subscriptions are presented,

> please extend your schema `example.graphql` with the following type:

Reviewer 3: I would leave out 'please' entirely

subscription {
  userStatistics {
    purchase {
      purchaseId
    }
    click {
      userId
      timestamp
    }
  }
}
```
In Altair, you would press the `Run subscription` button
to start the subscription.

## Ingest data

You can now ingest some data to different topics
and see how the multi-subscription behaves.
Please start with adding a single purchase:
```json title="subscription-purchase.json"
{
    "key": "abc",
    "value": {
      "purchaseId": "abc",
      "productId": 123,
      "userId": 2,
      "amount": 2,
      "price": {
        "total": 29.99,
        "currency": "DOLLAR"
      }
    }
}
```
```shell
 curl --request POST --url "$QUICK_URL/ingest/purchase" \
  --header "content-type:application/json" \
  --header "X-API-Key:$QUICK_API_KEY"\
  --data "@./subscription-purchase.json"
```
As a result, you should see the following JSON response in Altair:
```json
{
  "data": {
    "userStatistics": {
      "purchase": {
        "purchaseId": "abc"
      },
      "click": null
    }
  }
}
```
Since you have not added any click event,
the response contains only purchase data.
Now, please send the following click event
via the ingest service.

> !!! Note

Reviewer 3: Is that displayed as desired?

Reviewer: I think the content needs indenting
https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/reference/admonitions/#usage

Please note that the key of the click event
is the same as the id of the purchase event.
Otherwise, they couldn't be associated.
```json title="click1.json"
{
    "key": "abc",
    "value": {
        "userId": 2,
        "timestamp": 123456
    }
}
```
```shell
 curl --request POST --url "$QUICK_URL/ingest/click" \
  --header "content-type:application/json" \
  --header "X-API-Key:$QUICK_API_KEY"\
  --data "@./click1.json"
```
You should see the following subscription result in your GraphQL client:
```json

> { "data": {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{
  "data": {
```

      "purchase": {
        "purchaseId": "abc"
      },
      "click": {
        "userId": 2,
        "timestamp": 123456
      } 
    }
  }
}
```
```json title="click1.json"
{
    "key": "abc",
    "value": {
        "userId": 2,
        "timestamp": 234567
    }
}
```
If you add yet another click with the same id as before
but with a different timestamp and ingest it,
you will get almost the same response as before.
The only thing that changes is the field timestamp.
As you can see, when a new event of a specific type arrives
(a `Click` event in the example above),
you immediately receive the latest seen version of the other type
(a `Purchase` event in the example).
Quick does the automatic retrieval to directly
create a response whose elements
belong to different types 
and are stored in various topics.
This mechanism can be extrapolated to multi-subscriptions
that encompass multiple types (topics).
If you had a type that consists of three elements,
and you receive the first element,
the latest versions of the corresponding types are fetched
immediately to create a response.
If you are interested in the details of this process,
you are welcome to consult

> the developer [section on multi-subscriptions](https://bakdata.github.io/quick/latest/developer/multi-subscriptions-details/)

Author: Ok, I will handle it in https://github.com/bakdata/quick/issues/93
